Okay.
So you may recall that in our original implementation of the accordion component using the options API,
this header text right here was actually a prop.
It was an input that every parent component would provide to an accordion whenever it rendered it.
So here where we used header, this was simply for the sake of example.
So in this lesson I want to remove this line of code and get back to using the regular header prop that
flows into every rendered accordion component.
Luckily, there's nothing we have to do.
We just have to incorporate this original piece of code back into our implementation.
This, as a reminder, is where we declare the expected props into this component.
And the reason we're getting a complaint here is because Iceland wants us to place this before our setup
function.
So right here I'm going to cut and paste this in-between name and set up like so.
And as a reminder, our props, a property here on our configuration object is just an object with a
bunch of prop properties.
So here what we're saying is we're expecting a header prop.
It's going to be a type string and it's going to be required.
Right now, the reason we're getting this is land violation, of course, is because if led to saying,
hey, you're getting a header prop and you're also providing a piece of data called header right here.
So let's go ahead and remove header right here.
And let's also remove this ref creation right here.
And it's going to work exactly as it did in the original implementation.
The header string that flows in is going to be the one we render right here.
All right.
So with that, if we transition back to our browser.
Maybe refresh the page.
We can see that we have our original header prop values coming in, we have degree, we have job types,
we have organizations, our carrot is working, our expandability is working, which means all of our
logic is still intact.
Everything looks correct to me as I check here and check here and expand here.
So basically we have successfully replaced our old implementation in the accordion with our new composition
API.
All right.
So that is fantastic news.
And what that means in this component is that we are clear to remove our former implementation that
we have commented out.
So before we do that, I just want us to quickly compare the before and after.
Here is the before and here is the after in our setup method.
So let's delete this logic right here.
And it may not seem readily apparent, but I think we can start to get the sense that using the composition
API, we do have what I think is a slightly simpler setup.
Right?
The beautiful part about this logic is instead of scattering our data, our methods and our computer
properties in separate configurations in the old options API, we now have the logic a little bit closer
together.
So here we can see that we have is open, that we're using it in this open method and that we are referencing
it in this computed function right here.
And similarly, if we had another piece of data and another method that worked on it and another computed
property or computed function rather that depended on it, we can sort of lodge that logic together,
you know, right here.
And that way we can combine or organize related ideas close to each other, which makes it a lot easier
to see how the related.
Again, imagine a component that has ten pieces of data and ten computed properties in ten methods and
maybe that are organized where, you know, three pieces of data need three methods.
And for computed properties, the larger component grows.
The larger it becomes difficult to understand the connections between those pieces because the original
options API forces us to break them up across those different sections, data, computed methods, etc.
Now in our single setup method, we can sort of organize them together, so it becomes a little bit
easier to see how they are related to each other.
And later on we'll see how we can even improve on this design by extracting some of this logic outside
of the component.
All right.
But this is our basic refactor.
And if it isn't apparent, there is sort of this analogous relationship between what we have here,
as well as the old options API.
So you can think of RAF as being effectively the equivalent of what data was in the options API.
It's some kind of a value that is intended to be reactive that is going to change over time and we want
to monitor those changes and how that affect the template in some way.
Either we want to render that piece of information or we want to use it in something like a directive
like VRF.
The point is it is equivalent to data in the sense that it has some kind of value that is going to be
changing over time.
As far as a function here, this function of open is analogous to a method in the options API.
It is a basic JavaScript function whose responsibility it is to modify a piece of data.
Except in this case, our data is not coming from our data section, it's coming from our basic RAF
function invocations right here.
And finally, the computed function is, you guessed it, it's basically the analogous complimentary
thing in the composition API for computed properties.
But instead of having a separate section that we just now declare the computed function and we reuse
it whenever we want to use existing data and reactive objects such as is open as the basis for some
other derived data.
So it's almost this like 1 to 1 mapping this 1 to 1 association refs, to data functions, to methods
and computed function to computed properties.
But of course written in a more traditional vanilla JavaScript sense that's less knowledgeable about
view.
And that's one of the reasons why a lot of people like the composition API.
Is it?
It can be pretty simple, right?
Once you remember that a reactive object has a value property, then a method becomes as simple as a
basic JavaScript function that just alters the value property on that reactive object.
Right?
So it is taking a more functional approach, a more vanilla barebones JavaScript approach that also
allows us to organize related code together in the setup function.
All right.
So hopefully this has been a beneficial exercise.
I think this was a really good way to introduce us to Composition API instead of wiring up anything
from scratch.
We got to compare the before and after of the Options API implementation and now the composition API
implementation while getting a sense of what the pieces of it are and how they specifically work.
All right.
So the all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.